# File: flavor.txt

# This file is used to initialize the "flavor" information for the Angband game.
# Do not modify this file unless you know exactly what you are doing,
# unless you wish to risk possible system crashes and broken savefiles.

# kind:<tval>:<char>
# flavor:<index>:<attr>:<text>
# fixed:<index>:<sval>:<attr>:<text>

# To see how many items are in here vs. those required by the number of
# objects in object.txt, the following bash script may be useful:
#  for i in 40 45 55 65 66 70 75 80; do
#    X=`grep "I:$i" object.txt|wc -l`
#    Y=`grep $i\$ flavor.txt | wc -l`
#    echo "tval $i: in object, $X, in flavor, $Y"
#  done

##### Rings #####

kind:ring:=

# Fixed: the One Ring
fixed:1:55:Yellow:Plain Gold

# The Ring of Barahir 50
# The Ring of Tulkas 51

# The Ring of Power 'Narya'
fixed:28:52:Red:Ruby

# The Ring of Power 'Nenya'
fixed:40:53:Light Blue:Mithril

# The Ring of Power 'Vilya'
fixed:29:54:Blue:Sapphire

flavor:2:Green:Alexandrite
flavor:3:Violet:Amethyst
flavor:4:Light Blue:Aquamarine
flavor:5:Light Blue:Azurite
flavor:6:Light Green:Beryl
flavor:7:Red:Bloodstone
flavor:8:White:Calcite
flavor:9:Red:Carnelian
flavor:10:Slate:Corundum
flavor:11:White:Diamond
flavor:12:Green:Emerald
flavor:13:Light Green:Fluorite
flavor:14:Red:Garnet
flavor:15:Light Slate:Granite
flavor:16:Light Green:Jade
flavor:17:Umber:Jasper
flavor:18:Blue:Lapis Lazuli
flavor:19:Green:Malachite
flavor:20:White:Marble
flavor:21:Light Slate:Moonstone
flavor:22:Light Red:Onyx
flavor:23:Light Slate:Opal
flavor:24:White:Pearl
flavor:25:Light Slate:Quartz
flavor:26:Light Slate:Quartzite
flavor:27:Light Red:Rhodonite
#flavor:28:Red:Ruby
#flavor:29:Blue:Sapphire
flavor:30:Yellow:Tiger Eye
flavor:31:Yellow:Topaz
flavor:32:Light Blue:Turquoise
flavor:33:Light Umber:Zircon
flavor:34:White:Platinum
flavor:35:Light Umber:Bronze
flavor:36:Yellow:Gold
flavor:37:Light Dark:Obsidian
flavor:38:Light Slate:Silver
flavor:39:Umber:Tortoise Shell
#flavor:40:Light Blue:Mithril
flavor:41:Light Dark:Jet
flavor:42:Yellow:Engagement
flavor:43:Light Green:Adamantite

##### Amulets #####

kind:amulet:"

# The Amulet of Carlammas
fixed:52:50:Light Umber:Bronze

# The Amulet of Ingwe 51

# The Necklace of the Dwarves
fixed:55:52:Yellow:Golden

# New Artifact (14): The Elfstone 'Elessar'
fixed:44:53:Green:Green

# New Artifact (15): The Jewel 'Evenstar'
fixed:46:54:White:White

#flavor:44:Yellow:Amber
flavor:45:Light Umber:Driftwood
#flavor:46:White:Coral
flavor:47:Light Slate:Agate
flavor:48:White:Ivory
flavor:49:Light Dark:Obsidian
flavor:50:White:Bone
flavor:51:Light Umber:Brass
#flavor:52:Light Umber:Bronze
flavor:53:Slate:Pewter
flavor:54:Umber:Tortoise Shell
#flavor:55:Yellow:Golden
flavor:56:Light Blue:Azure
flavor:57:White:Crystal
flavor:58:Light Slate:Silver
flavor:59:Light Umber:Copper
flavor:60:Umber:Carved Oak
flavor:61:Light Slate:Dragon Tooth
flavor:62:Red:Ruby
flavor:63:Light Blue:Mithril
flavor:64:Light Green:Adamant
flavor:65:Slate:Flint Stone
flavor:66:Light Blue:Sea Shell
flavor:67:Light Slate:Mother-of-Pearl

##### Staves #####

kind:staff:_

flavor:68:Light Umber:Aspen
flavor:69:Light Umber:Balsa
flavor:70:Light Umber:Banyan
flavor:71:Light Umber:Birch
flavor:72:Light Umber:Cedar
flavor:73:Light Umber:Cottonwood
flavor:74:Light Umber:Cypress
flavor:75:Light Umber:Dogwood
flavor:76:Light Umber:Elm
flavor:77:Light Umber:Eucalyptus
flavor:78:Light Umber:Hemlock
flavor:79:Light Umber:Hickory
flavor:80:Umber:Ironwood
flavor:81:Light Umber:Locust
flavor:82:Umber:Mahogany
flavor:83:Umber:Maple
flavor:84:Umber:Mulberry
flavor:85:Umber:Oak
flavor:86:Umber:Pine
flavor:87:Red:Redwood
flavor:88:Red:Rosewood
flavor:89:Light Umber:Spruce
flavor:90:Light Umber:Sycamore
flavor:91:Light Umber:Teak
flavor:92:Umber:Walnut
flavor:93:Green:Mistletoe
flavor:94:Light Umber:Hawthorn
flavor:95:Light Umber:Bamboo
flavor:96:Light Slate:Silver
flavor:97:Umber:Runed
flavor:98:Yellow:Golden
flavor:99:Slate:Ashen
flavor:100:Light Umber:Gnarled
flavor:101:White:Ivory
flavor:102:Light Umber:Willow

##### Wands #####

kind:wand:-

flavor:103:Light Blue:Aluminium
flavor:104:Light Dark:Cast Iron
flavor:105:White:Chromium
flavor:106:Light Umber:Copper
flavor:107:Yellow:Gold
flavor:108:Slate:Iron
flavor:109:Light Slate:Magnesium
flavor:110:Light Slate:Molybdenum
flavor:111:Light Umber:Nickel
flavor:112:Red:Rusty
flavor:113:Light Slate:Silver
flavor:114:Light Slate:Steel
flavor:115:Light Slate:Tin
flavor:116:White:Titanium
flavor:117:White:Tungsten
flavor:118:Light Slate:Zirconium
flavor:119:Light Slate:Zinc
flavor:120:Light Blue:Aluminum-Plated
flavor:121:Light Umber:Copper-Plated
flavor:122:Yellow:Gold-Plated
flavor:123:Light Umber:Nickel-Plated
flavor:124:Light Slate:Silver-Plated
flavor:125:Light Slate:Steel-Plated
flavor:126:Light Slate:Tin-Plated
flavor:127:Light Slate:Zinc-Plated
flavor:128:Light Blue:Mithril-Plated
flavor:129:Light Blue:Mithril
flavor:130:Umber:Runed
flavor:131:Light Umber:Bronze
flavor:132:Light Umber:Brass
flavor:133:White:Platinum
flavor:134:Slate:Lead
flavor:135:Slate:Lead-Plated
flavor:136:White:Ivory
flavor:137:Slate:Pewter

##### Rods #####

kind:rod:-

flavor:138:Light Blue:Aluminum
flavor:139:Light Dark:Cast Iron
flavor:140:White:Chromium
flavor:141:Light Umber:Copper
flavor:142:Yellow:Gold
flavor:143:Slate:Iron
flavor:144:Light Slate:Magnesium
flavor:145:Light Slate:Molybdenum
flavor:146:Light Umber:Nickel
flavor:147:Red:Rusty
flavor:148:Light Slate:Silver
flavor:149:Light Slate:Steel
flavor:150:Light Slate:Tin
flavor:151:White:Titanium
flavor:152:White:Tungsten
flavor:153:Light Slate:Zirconium
flavor:154:Light Slate:Zinc
flavor:155:Light Blue:Aluminum-Plated
flavor:156:Light Umber:Copper-Plated
flavor:157:Yellow:Gold-Plated
flavor:158:Light Umber:Nickel-Plated
flavor:159:Light Slate:Silver-Plated
flavor:160:Light Slate:Steel-Plated
flavor:161:Light Slate:Tin-Plated
flavor:162:Light Slate:Zinc-Plated
flavor:163:Light Blue:Mithril-Plated
flavor:164:Light Blue:Mithril
flavor:165:Umber:Runed
flavor:166:Light Umber:Bronze
flavor:167:Light Umber:Brass
flavor:168:White:Platinum
flavor:169:Slate:Lead
flavor:170:Slate:Lead-Plated
flavor:171:White:Ivory
flavor:172:Slate:Pewter

##### Mushrooms #####

kind:food:,

flavor:173:Blue:Blue
flavor:174:Light Dark:Black
flavor:175:Light Dark:Black Spotted
flavor:176:Umber:Brown
flavor:177:Blue:Dark Blue
flavor:178:Green:Dark Green
flavor:179:Red:Dark Red
flavor:180:Yellow:Yellow
flavor:181:Light Slate:Furry
flavor:182:Green:Green
flavor:183:Slate:Grey
flavor:184:Light Blue:Light Blue
flavor:185:Light Green:Light Green
flavor:186:Violet:Violet
flavor:187:Red:Red
flavor:188:Slate:Slimy
flavor:189:Light Umber:Tan
flavor:190:White:White
flavor:191:White:White Spotted
flavor:192:Umber:Wrinkled

##### Potions #####

kind:potion:!

flavor:193:White:Clear
flavor:194:Light Umber:Light Brown
flavor:195:Green:Icky Green
flavor:196:Light Blue:Azure
flavor:197:Blue:Blue
flavor:198:Blue:Blue Speckled
flavor:199:Light Dark:Black
flavor:200:Umber:Brown
flavor:201:Umber:Brown Speckled
flavor:202:Light Slate:Bubbling
flavor:203:Light Green:Chartreuse
flavor:204:White:Cloudy
flavor:205:Light Umber:Copper Speckled
flavor:206:Red:Crimson
flavor:207:Light Blue:Cyan
flavor:208:Blue:Dark Blue
flavor:209:Green:Dark Green
flavor:210:Red:Dark Red
flavor:211:Yellow:Gold Speckled
flavor:212:Green:Green
flavor:213:Green:Green Speckled
flavor:214:Slate:Grey
flavor:215:Slate:Grey Speckled
flavor:216:Light Slate:Hazy
flavor:217:Violet:Indigo
flavor:218:Light Blue:Light Blue
flavor:219:Light Green:Light Green
flavor:220:Red:Magenta
flavor:221:Blue:Metallic Blue
flavor:222:Red:Metallic Red
flavor:223:Green:Metallic Green
flavor:224:Violet:Metallic Purple
flavor:225:Light Slate:Misty
flavor:226:Orange:Orange
flavor:227:Orange:Orange Speckled
flavor:228:Light Red:Pink
flavor:229:Light Red:Pink Speckled
flavor:230:Violet:Puce
flavor:231:Violet:Purple
flavor:232:Violet:Purple Speckled
flavor:233:Red:Red
flavor:234:Red:Red Speckled
flavor:235:Light Slate:Silver Speckled
flavor:236:Light Dark:Smoky
flavor:237:Orange:Tangerine
flavor:238:Violet:Violet
flavor:239:Red:Vermilion
flavor:240:White:White
flavor:241:Yellow:Yellow
flavor:242:Violet:Violet Speckled
flavor:243:Light Red:Pungent
flavor:244:Red:Clotted Red
flavor:245:Light Red:Viscous Pink
flavor:246:Yellow:Oily Yellow
flavor:247:Green:Gloopy Green
flavor:248:Violet:Shimmering
flavor:249:Red:Coagulated Crimson
flavor:250:Yellow:Yellow Speckled
flavor:251:Yellow:Gold

##### Scrolls #####

# Scroll names are generated from randomly combined syllables

kind:scroll:?

flavor:252:White
flavor:253:White
flavor:254:White
flavor:255:White
flavor:256:White
flavor:257:White
flavor:258:White
flavor:259:White
flavor:260:White
flavor:261:White
flavor:262:White
flavor:263:White
flavor:264:White
flavor:265:White
flavor:266:White
flavor:267:White
flavor:268:White
flavor:269:White
flavor:270:White
flavor:271:White
flavor:272:White
flavor:273:White
flavor:274:White
flavor:275:White
flavor:276:White
flavor:277:White
flavor:278:White
flavor:279:White
flavor:280:White
flavor:281:White
flavor:282:White
flavor:283:White
flavor:284:White
flavor:285:White
flavor:286:White
flavor:287:White
flavor:288:White
flavor:289:White
flavor:290:White
flavor:291:White
flavor:292:White
flavor:293:White
flavor:294:White
flavor:295:White
flavor:296:White
flavor:297:White
flavor:298:White
flavor:299:White
flavor:300:White
flavor:301:White
flavor:302:White
