======================
README for Angband 3.3
======================

New features in Angband 3.3.0
=============================

There were a lot of significant changes in 3.2.0, so if you haven't played
Angband for a long time, they are summarised below. If you are completely
new to the game, please read the other help files for an introduction to
the game, as this file contains spoiler-ish info.

This new version has a few significant changes too:

Dungeon generation has had its first major overhaul for two decades. As
well as rooms and vaults, pits and nests you will now find special "cavern"
and "labyrinth" levels occasionally. Both of these new level types, for
different reasons, can be quite dangerous.

Level feelings have finally been completely redesigned. You will now get
two separate feelings: the moment you descend the stairs, your first
impression of the new level will give you a sense of how dangerous it is
(judging by corpses, bloodstains, etc.). Some time later, you will get a
sense of how lucrative it might be in terms of treasure/loot. Many thanks
to Jeff Greene for the foolproof mechanism for the random time delay.

Objects may now have up to three pvals, which are displayed in <angle
brackets>. So an object may provide +1 to STR and +2 to stealth at the same
time.

Macros no longer exist. Everything you could do with macros you can now do
with keymaps - and more.

You can no longer destroy items - they are squelched instead. You can
toggle the visibility of squelched items by using the 'K' command.

Certain things, like enchantment scrolls and restore stat potions, are no
longer available in town. Restore stat potions don't exist any more - but
drained stats are restored on level up (and by stat gain potions).

Resistances have been made more consistent, and a new class of
"protections" from non-damaging status effects has been created. Confusion
is no longer a breath attack, and has a protection rather than a
resistance. Protection from stunning is now separate from sound resistance.
A resistance will protect you from status effects from that element only -
so sound resistance will no longer protect you from mystics.

If you play with randarts and really like the ones in a particular game,
you can keep them for subsequent games by choosing "keep randarts" from the
death menu. Note that switching back to non-random artifacts will lose them
though.

Some items have been rebalanced: Dragon Scale armours are no longer quite
so frequently powerful, and magical effects which hinder monsters (slow,
sleep, confuse, scare) are now more useful. Elemental rings no longer boost
your melee damage. Teleport Other is now a bolt, affecting only one monster
at a time, and *Destruction* now removes artifacts as well as monsters.
Potions that cure wounds are no longer quite so powerful.

Spiking doors is now a lot more useful, and you can lock doors too (by
using the Disarm command). Monsters may take several turns to open/bash a
locked and spiked door.

Finally, mimics are a lot harder to spot ...

New features in Angband 3.2.0
=============================

There are some changes in this version to things that have remained
unchanged for many years -

The AC system has been revised, so that heavy armour items offer a more
proportionate amount of protection for their weight. This makes them more
useful, but more expensive. (The concept of AC is unchanged: it makes you
harder to hit and reduces the damage you take from physical attacks.) Those
rare and special "dragonhide" armours are now more useful and more
varied...

In melee, the concept of "attacks per round" has changed. Attacks now cost
a fixed amount of "energy", dependent on your stats, class and weapon. You
still spend up to 100 energy attacking each turn, but unused energy will be
carried over to your next turn. This will result in getting your next turn
more quickly, when you have accumulated enough energy, and means your
"blows per round" can be expressed as a fraction. In addition, you will
stop your turn when you kill a monster and carry over your remaining energy
to your next turn.

Resistances to fire, cold, acid and lightning will now reduce the chances
of items in your backpack being destroyed by those elements.

Missiles with slays or brands are now slightly less awesomely effective:
the multiplier from the slay/brand is added to the launcher multiplier,
rather than multiplied by it. So a x3 bow with a x3 brand does x6 damage
not x9. Missiles are still a competitive form of attack though.

There are now good reasons to try and clear monster pits and nests, other
than the experience.

Artifacts are now instantly recognisable, but you will still need to find
out what they do by trying them out or identifying them.

To reduce note-taking, you can now review the contents of the stores while
you are in the dungeon. Note that this does not keep track of changes since
you have left town, so the lists may be out-of-date by the time you return!

Storekeepers will offer occasional hints to young adventurers. After you
gain a few levels, they will greet you without presuming to offer advice.

There is a new "no_selling" option. Storekeepers will still happily take
items off your hands, but they will pay you nothing (though they will still
ID unknown items for you, and they will still happily sell you their
wares). Instead, gold found in the dungeon is increased in quantity. This
is a birth option and must be set before or during character creation. If
changed during a game, it will not take effect until the next game. Note
that changed birth options do not take effect if you use the "quickstart"
option (i.e. immediately start a new character based on the previous one).
If you want to play with changed birth options, make sure you go right back
to the start of the birth process (press 'N' at the quickstart screen, then
'=' to edit birth options).

There is another new option, to display all "unique" monsters in a special
(light purple) colour, so you can see at a glance that they are uniques. If
you like the idea but don't like the colour, you can edit it by choosing
"interact with colours".

There is yet another new option to make certain powerful monsters and items
shimmer in real time (i.e. between keypresses).

If you play with graphical tiles, you can now make them bigger. There is
also a new 8x16 tile set (thanks Nomad!).

